Required Skills and Knowledge
The skills we are about to list and describe require theoretical and practical knowledge acquired over time. We do not have to know everything by heart, but we should know what to look for when certain aspects of the content seem unfamiliar. This applies not only to NTA but also to most other topics we will deal with in cybersecurity.

TCP/IP Stack & OSI Model
This understanding will ensure we grasp how networking traffic and the host applications interact.

Basic Network Concepts
Understanding what types of traffic we will see at each level includes an understanding of the individual layers that make up the TCP/IP and OSI model and the concepts of switching and routing. If we tap a network on a backbone link, we will see much more traffic than usual, and it will be vastly different from what we find tapping an office switch.

Common Ports and Protocols
Identifying standard ports and protocols quickly and having a functional understanding of how they communicate will ensure we can identify potentially malicious or malformed network traffic.

Concepts of IP Packets and the Sublayers
Foundational knowledge of how TCP and UDP communicate will, at a minimum, ensure we understand what we see or are searching for. TCP, for example, is stream-oriented and allows us to follow a conversation between hosts easily. UDP is quick but not concerned with completeness, so it would be harder to recreate something from this packet type.

Protocol Transport Encapsulation
Each layer will encapsulate the previous. Being able to read or dissect when this encapsulation changes will help us move through data quicker. It is easy to see hints based on encapsulation headers.

Environment and Equipment
The list below contains many different tools and equipment types that can be utilized to perform network traffic analysis. Each will provide a different way to capture or dissect the traffic. Some offer ways to copy and capture, while others read and ingest. This module will explore just a few of these (Wireshark and tcpdump mostly). Keep in mind these tools are not strictly geared for admins. Many of these can be used for malicious reasons as well.
